essays/design-patterns.md, before:

---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: "Patterns To Successful Designing"
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2025-12-04
published: false
labels:
  - Coding
  - Newbie
  - Reflection
  - Design
  - Education
---

<img class="img-fluid" src="../img/50-stunningly-beautiful-geometric-patterns-in-graphic-design.jpg">

Whenever you look up a website whether it'd be your favorite or most important one, you would always see that it has a unique layout appealing to the eye that's also easy to handle. Then, when you go to another website, you come to realize that that website has a different layout than the previous site you checked, yet it is still unique in a way that it's appealing and easy to use. It should come to no surprise that every website is known to have its different design pattern just to appeal to everybody who visits the site based on their upmost needs. But why would they want to use design patterns? Let's take a closer look as to why they are appealing.

## The "What" and the "Why"

When it comes to the use of design patterns, they are common practices for building applications that are optimized for front end frameworks and serverless functions. Examples of these design patterns being used include static site generation that pre-renders pages at build time, server-side rendering which generates pages on each request, and API routes which makes building serverless functions directly within the application easiter. If you couldn't already tell, all of these design patterns have one thing in common: they are practices that actually benefit the websites thanks to improving their performance that causes faster loading times thanks to less data being used as well as how the components can be constantly reused to maintain consistency and reduce redundancy, hence why people use design patterns. As for my personal use of dessign patterns? 

## The use of design patterns in my final project

Well, 

DISCLAIMER: I did not use AI to write this essay.

Commit message:

Change publication status to true and edit content
Updated the publication status of the essay and made minor text corrections for clarity.

essays/design-patterns.md, after:

---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: "Patterns To Successful Designing"
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2025-12-04
published: true
labels:
  - Coding
  - Newbie
  - Reflection
  - Design
  - Education
---

<img class="img-fluid" src="../img/50-stunningly-beautiful-geometric-patterns-in-graphic-design.jpg">

Whenever you look up a website whether it'd be your favorite or most important one, you would always see that it has a unique layout appealing to the eye that's also easy to handle. Then, when you go to another website, you come to realize that that website has a different layout than the previous site you checked, yet it is still unique in a way that it's appealing and easy to use. It should come to no surprise that every website is known to have its different design pattern just to appeal to everybody who visits the site based on their upmost needs. But why would they want to use design patterns? Let's take a closer look as to why they are appealing.

## The "What" and the "Why"

When it comes to the use of design patterns, they are common practices for building applications that are optimized for front end frameworks and serverless functions. Examples of these design patterns being used include static site generation that pre-renders pages at build time, server-side rendering which generates pages on each request, and API routes which makes building serverless functions directly within the application easiter. If you couldn't already tell, all of these design patterns have one thing in common: they are practices that actually benefit the websites thanks to improving their performance that causes faster loading times thanks to less data being used as well as how the components can be constantly reused to maintain consistency and reduce redundancy, hence why people use design patterns. As for my personal use of dessign patterns? 

## The use of design patterns in my final project

Well, my project is pretty much a website known to load pretty fast whenever certain tabs and buttons are pressed thanks to being able to apply codes that allow it to use little data as possible. The other advantages of this website is how there are little redundant parts on the site that remain consistent thanks to certain components being reused throughout the website. With these additions, people are pretty much bound to feel satisfied in using the website without any complaints thanks to the codes used to make the site manageable for everyone, as with many common websites you go on online.

DISCLAIMER: I did not use AI to write this essay.
