essays/effort.md, before:

---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: "Contributions and Tribulaitons"
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2025-12-14
published: true
labels:
  - Coding
  - Newbie
  - Reflection
  - Team
  - Education
  - Engineering
---

<img class="img-fluid" src="../img/collaborative-efforts-closeup-university-students-engaged-group-project-work_1000124-203544.avif">

When it comes to group projects, it is a known fact that everyone needs to pay some form of contribution in a way. Of course, with each contribution, it must involve effort that has to be done in a certain amount of time. Many people have different ways to track down their time.

## How I was able to track my time

When tracking my time, I usually looked at the analog clock at the bottom right of my laptop before I started doing my task. Then, upon starting my task, I record the starting time and do my task as normal. Finally, when I finish my task, I take a look at the analog clock again and record my end time. I subtract the end time by my start time and that was the total amount of time I was able to spend doing my task. 

## Benefits of estimating in advance

By being able to estimate in advance, it easily comes with its benefits. For starters, I am able to predict a time as to how long it will take me to get a task done. Then, I proceed to do my task while recording my time. If the time I complete the task is on par with the time I estimated to finish the task, it means that I can predict the time to finish my tasks accurately thanks to experience. If I go over my estimated time, it means I have underestimated the time and should try to train my skills harder to get to my estimated time. If I finish under my estimated time, it means I have overestimated myself which is a good thing because it shows how efficient I am even if I might not know it.

## Actual effort tracking usefulness

Tracking actual effort was pretty useful to me. It was able to help me inform my future estimates by showing if I take no efffort, some effort, or high effort when I do a task. That way, I would be able to know when to raise or lower my predicted estimated time when needed.

## How I was able to track my actual effort and its accuracy

When it came to tracking my actual effort, I usually keep track of how tired I physically feel when doing a task. If I start to feel tired, it means that I am doing a lot of effort through taking more time. Likewise, if I don't feel tired, it means I'm doing little to no effort when doing a task. That said, both of these instances are pretty accurate methods as to how I was able to track my actual effort.

## What I could change to improve my estimation/tracking progress

TEXT

DISCLAIMER: I did not use AI to write this essay.

Commit message:

Revise title and improve effort tracking section
Updated the title and modified a section to reflect changes in effort tracking.

essays/effort.md, after:

---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: "Contributions and Tribulaitons with Effort"
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2025-12-14
published: true
labels:
  - Coding
  - Newbie
  - Reflection
  - Team
  - Education
  - Engineering
---

<img class="img-fluid" src="../img/collaborative-efforts-closeup-university-students-engaged-group-project-work_1000124-203544.avif">

When it comes to group projects, it is a known fact that everyone needs to pay some form of contribution in a way. Of course, with each contribution, it must involve effort that has to be done in a certain amount of time. Many people have different ways to track down their time.

## How I was able to track my time

When tracking my time, I usually looked at the analog clock at the bottom right of my laptop before I started doing my task. Then, upon starting my task, I record the starting time and do my task as normal. Finally, when I finish my task, I take a look at the analog clock again and record my end time. I subtract the end time by my start time and that was the total amount of time I was able to spend doing my task. 

## Benefits of estimating in advance

By being able to estimate in advance, it easily comes with its benefits. For starters, I am able to predict a time as to how long it will take me to get a task done. Then, I proceed to do my task while recording my time. If the time I complete the task is on par with the time I estimated to finish the task, it means that I can predict the time to finish my tasks accurately thanks to experience. If I go over my estimated time, it means I have underestimated the time and should try to train my skills harder to get to my estimated time. If I finish under my estimated time, it means I have overestimated myself which is a good thing because it shows how efficient I am even if I might not know it.

## Actual effort tracking usefulness

Tracking actual effort was pretty useful to me. It was able to help me inform my future estimates by showing if I take no efffort, some effort, or high effort when I do a task. That way, I would be able to know when to raise or lower my predicted estimated time when needed.

## How I was able to track my actual effort and its accuracy

When it came to tracking my actual effort, I usually keep track of how tired I physically feel when doing a task. If I start to feel tired, it means that I am doing a lot of effort through taking more time. Likewise, if I don't feel tired, it means I'm doing little to no effort when doing a task. That said, both of these instances are pretty accurate methods as to how I was able to track my actual effort.

## What I could change to improve my estimation/tracking progress

Based on my recorded effort, I had low coding and non-coding effort, but it was never 0. I also only took 1 to 1.5 minutes to do my tasks. This basically shows that I'm doing good in doing my tasks, but if I had to improve on my estimation and tracking progress skills, it would be to do more of these tasks repeatedly to get the hang of them.

DISCLAIMER: I did not use AI to write this essay.
