essays/software-engineering.md, before:

---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: "Software Engineering Life"
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2025-12-17
published: false
labels:
  - Coding
  - Newbie
  - Reflection
  - Software Engineering
  - Education
---

<img class="img-fluid" src="../img/software-development-concepts-and-programming-for-various-devices-software-engineer-computer-programmer-coding-process-chart-testing-platform-data-analytics-online-safety-photo.jpg">

## Introduction

There's always an old saying that as time goes on, technology advances further with every century that passes. Since the last century, the concept of coding was discovered, and with its discovery would lead to the creation of many different coding languages and even websites that everyone would create with their heart's content. If it wasn't obvious, the concept of Software Engineering is something that must be experienced by someone who is interested in studying computer science as what it possesses is crucial for improving their coding experience. As a computer science major and a Software Engineering student, I have learned many things about Software Engineering that made me become better at coding.

## Coding Standards

When it came to me learning about coding standards, it was mainly about learning about new coding languages in general. To nobody's surprise, many new coding languages get introduced in the many decades to come thanks to technology advancing, and so, with a new coding language, we are bound to learn about it and meet the language's expectations through practicing doing codes with the language itself. As much as this is commonly done when trying to create web pages, there exist coding standards beyond web application development in the form of trying to create video games for various consoles as being able to handle data and implement algorithms to ensure that results can be replicated. Both of these instances especially have one thing in common that isn't just involving web application development: being that people are bound to collaborate with each other into getting their coding tasks done for projects that aren't related to web development.

## User Interface Frameworks

TEXT

## Ethics in Software Engineering

TEXT

## Conclusion

TEXT

DISCLAIMER: I did not use AI to write this essay.

Commit message:

Fix typos and enhance clarity in software engineering essay
Corrected typos and improved clarity in sections about user interface frameworks and ethics in software engineering.

essays/software-engineering.md, after:

---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: "Software Engineering Life"
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2025-12-17
published: false
labels:
  - Coding
  - Newbie
  - Reflection
  - Software Engineering
  - Education
---

<img class="img-fluid" src="../img/software-development-concepts-and-programming-for-various-devices-software-engineer-computer-programmer-coding-process-chart-testing-platform-data-analytics-online-safety-photo.jpg">

## Introduction

There's always an old saying that as time goes on, technology advances further with every century that passes. Since the last century, the concept of coding was discovered, and with its discovery would lead to the creation of many different coding languages and even websites that everyone would create with their heart's content. If it wasn't obvious, the concept of Software Engineering is something that must be experienced by someone who is interested in studying computer science as what it possesses is crucial for improving their coding experience. As a computer science major and a Software Engineering student, I have learned many things about Software Engineering that made me become better at coding.

## Coding Standards

When it came to me learning about coding standards, it was mainly about learning about new coding languages in general. To nobody's surprise, many new coding languages get introduced in the many decades to come thanks to technology advancing, and so, with a new coding language, we are bound to learn about it and meet the language's expectations through practicing doing codes with the language itself. As much as this is commonly done when trying to create web pages, there exist coding standards beyond web application development in the form of trying to create video games for various consoles as being able to handle data and implement algorithms to ensure that results can be replicated. Both of these instances especially have one thing in common that isn't just involving web application development: being that people are bound to collaborate with each other into getting their coding tasks done for projects that aren't related to web development.

## User Interface Frameworks

When I learned about how to implement user interface frameworks, I foundd out that it was a programming language that was about using lightweight code to improve the performance of applications as well as add features on screens to have the users engage in interacting with objects on the screen. It is pretty popular for web application development, but in terms of how it can be used beyond that, it can also be used to create the user interface for various video games on various consoles that can let the players interact with things on their scree, create cross platform mobile applications using a single codebase, and build desktop applications from web technologies such as HTML5, CSS, and JavaScript. Every use of user interface frameworks beyond web application development especially has a thing in common where they let the developers be capable of designing things to their hearts content with unlimited potential on what they can create.

## Ethics in Software Engineering

For anyone in general who goes into Software Engineering, they are bound to follow a set of standards that influence how they behave and make decisions such as being respectful, providing the highest quality, and keeping a safe environment. This is common sense when it comes to creating web applications, but for the use of ethics in Software Engineering beyond just that, 

## Conclusion

TEXT

DISCLAIMER: I did not use AI to write this essay.
