essays/using-ai.md, before:

---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: "AI: Advanced Innovation"
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2025-12-16
published: true
labels:
  - Coding
  - Newbie
  - Reflection
  - Artificial Intelligence
  - Education
---

<img class="img-fluid" src="../img/AI_shutterstock_1722492775-scaled.jpg">

## Introduction

Ever since the start of the new decade in 2020, the idea of AI, something which has been thought about in the last century in both fiction and nonfiction, would become increasingly trending within the Software Engineering community. More specifically, the use of chatbots such as ChatGPT and GitHub Copilot have become increasingly popular due to the fact that they have helped people get work done faster through searching things on the internet as well as thinking deeply faster than a human as to how to get these tasks done. This is especially true when it comes to the role of AI within the education system, which has helped many students learn new things as they seek for help in what they need to do to get their work done fast. That said, I myself have used AI chatbots such as ChatGPT and GitHub Coopilot to get tasks done.

## My personal experience with AI

When it came to my personal experience with using AI, I pretty frequently used it whenever I needed to complete homework assignments for my classes. As someone who has been using AI for 2 years, I found it to be pretty useful from time to time. Of course, AI isn't perfect as it has sometimes led me to the wrong answers that I wasn't looking for either because it was computing incorrectly or because my prompts weren't specific enough. That said, as time went on, AI started to become a lot smarter than when I first started using it to the point where I am able to get more reliable answers from AI. For examples on how AI has helped me...

### Experience WODs e.g. E18

When it came to doing Experience WODs, it was very common for me to use AI to help me with my work. Initially, for the first few WODs that involved coding, I was able to finish these WODs very easily by myself without an AI as these were straightforward and part of the necessary learning experience for me to do better in the future by gaining skill. However, as time went on with the later experience WODs, they started to become increasingly more difficult. So, by the time I got to do the Jamba Juice WOD, I started to rely on AI to get my code functioning efficiently and accurately according to the instructions by telling it the instructions from copying and pasting them into the prompt. It has ultimately helped me complete my work a lot faster than how I would do it by myself without an AI.

### In-class Practice WODs

Whenever I did the practice WODs, I would oftentimes rely on AI to generate a code within minutes. This is something which I have done with the Banyan's Practice WOD for example, as I would copy the entire instructions and feed it to my chatbot (GitHub Copilot) and prompt it to "follow these stepss", to which it would generate a code for me. Of course, it wasn't perfect due to how there can be certain details it misses to the point where I need to point out what it missed specifically so it can work to add and revise code to fix these mistakes.

### In-class WODs

Initially, when I started my very first WOD, I did it without using AI because I wanted to see how well I did by myself with what I know from coding. Unfortunately, due to my lack of coding skill and overconfidence, I ultimately ended up failing the first WOD due to how I wasn't able to finish it on time. By my second WOD, I ultimately considered using AI to help me with my WOD by copying the entire instructions and pasting them into the prompt and telling it to "follow these steps". As a result, I was actually able to complete my WOD and score a full 100 points, showing how useful AI is to me in terms of completing tasks very quickly on the fly. Of course, some inconveniences that came in the way were that some of the steps were in images instead of text, but they could easily be bypassed by copying the images themselves and showing them to the AI so it can still follow the steps from those images.

### Essays

I have never used AI to write an essay (Whethere it'd be in full or partial chunks of it) as it would be completely dishonest to have something do the work for me that doesn't reflect how I myself thought about doing these things. However, at times I did sometimes use Grammarly to check for grammatical errors in my essays so I can have a perfectly organized essay.

### Final project

During my final project, I would always rely on GitHub Copilot to get my tasks done because I was under a strict time limit to get them done by the milestones. When it came down to implementing pages, I would tell it the specific instructions such as "Implement the Features page to make it look a lot like Discord's Features page" so it would know what I am talking about and make the best looking page accorkding to my instructions to it. I would still have to do the effort in tying in the specific instructions, but otherwise it would help me get my tasks done.

### Learning a concept / tutorial

Whenever I was learning a new term or concept such as learning a new coding languages (IE. Typescript, HTML5, Bootstrap), I would ask AI about what they are all about. In response, AI would tell me exactly what they are about such as variables and styles for certain coding languages as well as just giving definitions to certain terms I am trying to learn about (IE. "What is <Blank>?). This would help me understand these concepts from a clearer perspective to the point where I can 

### Answering a question in class or in Discord

Whenever I was in class and my professor would ask my class a question, I would rely on AI (ChatGPT) to get an answer (IE. "What is <Blank>?)". Not only was it able to generate the response quickly, but it was also able to descriibe said answer in high quality. Ultimately, it would prove to be useful in quick time scenarios when I need questions to be answered immediately on the fly.

### Asking or answering a smart-question

I never used AI to ask a smart question because I knew for a fact that it can be inaccurate in trying to give responses since it will have the tendency to look through certain badly asked SMART questions. Instead, I would ask my classmates on Discord for answers as they may have good experiences with these issues that I am trying to solve unlike AI which doesn't know what I am trying to resolve beforehand.

### Coding example e.g. “give an example of using Underscore .pluck”

When it came to coding examples, I would occasionally ask ChatGPT about them, specifically asking "Give me an example of using <Coding method>". Afterwards, it generates the response to let me know how the coding example is formatted and done so I can try to replicate that coding example in the future should I be tasked to implemenet such.

### Explaining code

Whenever I needed an explanation as to how certain code works, I would ask AI to help explain that for me. For example, if I needed to know how hero sections in Bootstrap work, I can just ask ChatGPT to explain it very proficiently. That way, I would have a better understanding as to how they work that can help me with future assignments.

### Writing code

In terms of needing to write code (Especially during WODs), I would rely on GitHub Copilot to help generate my code for me. If they are WODs, I would copy the entire instructions on them and tell Copilot to "Follow these steps" so it can generate all of the needed code for me. I may need to revise certain parts of code by giving it more prompts to fix them, but it at least gets the job done. If I don't have any worded instructions on me, I would just ask Copilot as much information as possible to do what needs to be done so it can understand what I need to fulfill my requirements, which was pretty useful when I needed to work on my Final Project.

### Documenting code

When it came to documenting code, I would ask GitHub Copilot to add comments at certain segments of the code to have them explain how each coding segment works and what they do. This is done in a way that I can get a better understanding as to how my code works.

### Quality assurance e.g. "What’s wrong with this code (code here)" or "Fix the ESLint errors in (code here)”

Whenever I am doing coding exercises (Especially WODs), it would be very common for me to notice errors in my code marked with red lines that were spotted thanks to ESLint. In order to fix these errors, I would have GitHub Copilot fix these errors for me to ensure that my code works as intended. While it can fix most of these errors, however, it seems to struggle in trying to add newlines that are needed at the end of every coding file, so I need to manually do it myself which is rather very easy. As much as the flaw with Copilot is that it can struggle to fix very easy errors that a human can fix, it can at least help me fix errors with more complex coding parts.

### Other uses in ICS 314 not listed

During coding exercises, I would use AI to help me understand why I'm getting certain ESLint errors. It would then give me a detailed response that explains why they happen, and that way, I would know how to fix these errors whenever I come across them next time.

## AI's Impact on Learning and Understanding Things

In my experience with using AI, AI has helped me overcome many obstacles by teaching me what I need to know about them as well as how to solve these problems. For example, whenever I need to do a task in coding a webpage, AI is always there to tell me about what I need to do in a comprehensive manner as well as complete my code while explaining the steps it is going through in a comprehensive manner. If certain codes don't work out, I am able to work with AI by having a conversation with it in order to solve my problems. Due to these complex bits of code that it is able to generate, I am able to learn from the code that it generates so I can replicate it to the best of my ability and improve my skills by doing multiple coding exercises in similar formats taught to me by the AI. As a result, AI has helped my increase my understanding of software engineering concepts as a whole.

## Applications with AI

When it came to me using AI outside of ICS314, I often used it for many applications. For example, whenever I needed to get difficult homework assignments done, I would turn to AI (ChatGPT) to navigate me in how to solve these homework problems. I would do this by copying the entire homework problems into the AI prompt so it can generate the answers I need to solve these problems. Aside from homework, AI has been useful to me for general things such as giving me the answers to non-educational questions about certain things or even give me instructions on how to do certain everyday activities such as cooking.

## Challenges and Opportunities with AI

As far as humankind is aware, AI isn't perfect. Whenever I give instructions to AI about what it needs to do on coding exercises, for example, the AI does not always do everything in one go due to the errors that it may have failed to resolve to the point where I need to give more prompts to have it fix them. Also, when it came to asking it questions, it can sometimes give the wrong answer without me knowing it. As such, for future opportunities for AI to be integrated into software engineering education, it should be improved on overtime so it can become a reliable learning assistant that can help software engineering students learn.

## Teaching Methods VS AI

When it comes to software engineering education, traditional teaching methods differ greatly compared to AI with their own advantages and disadvantages. For traditional teaching methods, due to how humans are the one teaching, they are able to give very concise answers that the AI may not be able to comprehend in real time to the point where students can actively engage in conversations with the teachers, but the issue is that they teach very slowly. For AI, it is able to generate responses very fast by looking into various websites, but it can lack the knowledge that more competent teachers have when it comes to teaching students. Comparing these two together, humans will still be needed to teach classes due to them having certain knowledge that AI does not know about, not to mention how humans are the only ones who can make AI improve by writing the coding algorithms for them.

## What AI might be like in the future

As far as AI is right now, it is not perfect as mentioned with the earlier points. However, when it comes to thinking about what AI might be like in the future, there's always the idea that it can advace thanks to humans being able to revise code within AI to make it learn better to the point where AI can replicate human knowledge, even though that point will most likely happen far from now. There also might be challenges where an AI revolution might happen where AI might become rogue to the point where it will deem humans inferior to them and potentially start to cause harm, but as long as humans can control how AI is learning, that AI uprising event would probably not happen.

## Conclusion

TEXT

DISCLAIMER: I did not use AI to write this essay.

Commit message:

Revise conclusion on AI's role in education
Updated the conclusion to reflect the current state and potential of AI in education and everyday tasks.

essays/using-ai.md, after:

---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: "AI: Advanced Innovation"
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2025-12-16
published: true
labels:
  - Coding
  - Newbie
  - Reflection
  - Artificial Intelligence
  - Education
---

<img class="img-fluid" src="../img/AI_shutterstock_1722492775-scaled.jpg">

## Introduction

Ever since the start of the new decade in 2020, the idea of AI, something which has been thought about in the last century in both fiction and nonfiction, would become increasingly trending within the Software Engineering community. More specifically, the use of chatbots such as ChatGPT and GitHub Copilot have become increasingly popular due to the fact that they have helped people get work done faster through searching things on the internet as well as thinking deeply faster than a human as to how to get these tasks done. This is especially true when it comes to the role of AI within the education system, which has helped many students learn new things as they seek for help in what they need to do to get their work done fast. That said, I myself have used AI chatbots such as ChatGPT and GitHub Coopilot to get tasks done.

## My personal experience with AI

When it came to my personal experience with using AI, I pretty frequently used it whenever I needed to complete homework assignments for my classes. As someone who has been using AI for 2 years, I found it to be pretty useful from time to time. Of course, AI isn't perfect as it has sometimes led me to the wrong answers that I wasn't looking for either because it was computing incorrectly or because my prompts weren't specific enough. That said, as time went on, AI started to become a lot smarter than when I first started using it to the point where I am able to get more reliable answers from AI. For examples on how AI has helped me...

### Experience WODs e.g. E18

When it came to doing Experience WODs, it was very common for me to use AI to help me with my work. Initially, for the first few WODs that involved coding, I was able to finish these WODs very easily by myself without an AI as these were straightforward and part of the necessary learning experience for me to do better in the future by gaining skill. However, as time went on with the later experience WODs, they started to become increasingly more difficult. So, by the time I got to do the Jamba Juice WOD, I started to rely on AI to get my code functioning efficiently and accurately according to the instructions by telling it the instructions from copying and pasting them into the prompt. It has ultimately helped me complete my work a lot faster than how I would do it by myself without an AI.

### In-class Practice WODs

Whenever I did the practice WODs, I would oftentimes rely on AI to generate a code within minutes. This is something which I have done with the Banyan's Practice WOD for example, as I would copy the entire instructions and feed it to my chatbot (GitHub Copilot) and prompt it to "follow these stepss", to which it would generate a code for me. Of course, it wasn't perfect due to how there can be certain details it misses to the point where I need to point out what it missed specifically so it can work to add and revise code to fix these mistakes.

### In-class WODs

Initially, when I started my very first WOD, I did it without using AI because I wanted to see how well I did by myself with what I know from coding. Unfortunately, due to my lack of coding skill and overconfidence, I ultimately ended up failing the first WOD due to how I wasn't able to finish it on time. By my second WOD, I ultimately considered using AI to help me with my WOD by copying the entire instructions and pasting them into the prompt and telling it to "follow these steps". As a result, I was actually able to complete my WOD and score a full 100 points, showing how useful AI is to me in terms of completing tasks very quickly on the fly. Of course, some inconveniences that came in the way were that some of the steps were in images instead of text, but they could easily be bypassed by copying the images themselves and showing them to the AI so it can still follow the steps from those images.

### Essays

I have never used AI to write an essay (Whethere it'd be in full or partial chunks of it) as it would be completely dishonest to have something do the work for me that doesn't reflect how I myself thought about doing these things. However, at times I did sometimes use Grammarly to check for grammatical errors in my essays so I can have a perfectly organized essay.

### Final project

During my final project, I would always rely on GitHub Copilot to get my tasks done because I was under a strict time limit to get them done by the milestones. When it came down to implementing pages, I would tell it the specific instructions such as "Implement the Features page to make it look a lot like Discord's Features page" so it would know what I am talking about and make the best looking page accorkding to my instructions to it. I would still have to do the effort in tying in the specific instructions, but otherwise it would help me get my tasks done.

### Learning a concept / tutorial

Whenever I was learning a new term or concept such as learning a new coding languages (IE. Typescript, HTML5, Bootstrap), I would ask AI about what they are all about. In response, AI would tell me exactly what they are about such as variables and styles for certain coding languages as well as just giving definitions to certain terms I am trying to learn about (IE. "What is <Blank>?). This would help me understand these concepts from a clearer perspective to the point where I can 

### Answering a question in class or in Discord

Whenever I was in class and my professor would ask my class a question, I would rely on AI (ChatGPT) to get an answer (IE. "What is <Blank>?)". Not only was it able to generate the response quickly, but it was also able to descriibe said answer in high quality. Ultimately, it would prove to be useful in quick time scenarios when I need questions to be answered immediately on the fly.

### Asking or answering a smart-question

I never used AI to ask a smart question because I knew for a fact that it can be inaccurate in trying to give responses since it will have the tendency to look through certain badly asked SMART questions. Instead, I would ask my classmates on Discord for answers as they may have good experiences with these issues that I am trying to solve unlike AI which doesn't know what I am trying to resolve beforehand.

### Coding example e.g. “give an example of using Underscore .pluck”

When it came to coding examples, I would occasionally ask ChatGPT about them, specifically asking "Give me an example of using <Coding method>". Afterwards, it generates the response to let me know how the coding example is formatted and done so I can try to replicate that coding example in the future should I be tasked to implemenet such.

### Explaining code

Whenever I needed an explanation as to how certain code works, I would ask AI to help explain that for me. For example, if I needed to know how hero sections in Bootstrap work, I can just ask ChatGPT to explain it very proficiently. That way, I would have a better understanding as to how they work that can help me with future assignments.

### Writing code

In terms of needing to write code (Especially during WODs), I would rely on GitHub Copilot to help generate my code for me. If they are WODs, I would copy the entire instructions on them and tell Copilot to "Follow these steps" so it can generate all of the needed code for me. I may need to revise certain parts of code by giving it more prompts to fix them, but it at least gets the job done. If I don't have any worded instructions on me, I would just ask Copilot as much information as possible to do what needs to be done so it can understand what I need to fulfill my requirements, which was pretty useful when I needed to work on my Final Project.

### Documenting code

When it came to documenting code, I would ask GitHub Copilot to add comments at certain segments of the code to have them explain how each coding segment works and what they do. This is done in a way that I can get a better understanding as to how my code works.

### Quality assurance e.g. "What’s wrong with this code (code here)" or "Fix the ESLint errors in (code here)”

Whenever I am doing coding exercises (Especially WODs), it would be very common for me to notice errors in my code marked with red lines that were spotted thanks to ESLint. In order to fix these errors, I would have GitHub Copilot fix these errors for me to ensure that my code works as intended. While it can fix most of these errors, however, it seems to struggle in trying to add newlines that are needed at the end of every coding file, so I need to manually do it myself which is rather very easy. As much as the flaw with Copilot is that it can struggle to fix very easy errors that a human can fix, it can at least help me fix errors with more complex coding parts.

### Other uses in ICS 314 not listed

During coding exercises, I would use AI to help me understand why I'm getting certain ESLint errors. It would then give me a detailed response that explains why they happen, and that way, I would know how to fix these errors whenever I come across them next time.

## AI's Impact on Learning and Understanding Things

In my experience with using AI, AI has helped me overcome many obstacles by teaching me what I need to know about them as well as how to solve these problems. For example, whenever I need to do a task in coding a webpage, AI is always there to tell me about what I need to do in a comprehensive manner as well as complete my code while explaining the steps it is going through in a comprehensive manner. If certain codes don't work out, I am able to work with AI by having a conversation with it in order to solve my problems. Due to these complex bits of code that it is able to generate, I am able to learn from the code that it generates so I can replicate it to the best of my ability and improve my skills by doing multiple coding exercises in similar formats taught to me by the AI. As a result, AI has helped my increase my understanding of software engineering concepts as a whole.

## Applications with AI

When it came to me using AI outside of ICS314, I often used it for many applications. For example, whenever I needed to get difficult homework assignments done, I would turn to AI (ChatGPT) to navigate me in how to solve these homework problems. I would do this by copying the entire homework problems into the AI prompt so it can generate the answers I need to solve these problems. Aside from homework, AI has been useful to me for general things such as giving me the answers to non-educational questions about certain things or even give me instructions on how to do certain everyday activities such as cooking.

## Challenges and Opportunities with AI

As far as humankind is aware, AI isn't perfect. Whenever I give instructions to AI about what it needs to do on coding exercises, for example, the AI does not always do everything in one go due to the errors that it may have failed to resolve to the point where I need to give more prompts to have it fix them. Also, when it came to asking it questions, it can sometimes give the wrong answer without me knowing it. As such, for future opportunities for AI to be integrated into software engineering education, it should be improved on overtime so it can become a reliable learning assistant that can help software engineering students learn.

## Teaching Methods VS AI

When it comes to software engineering education, traditional teaching methods differ greatly compared to AI with their own advantages and disadvantages. For traditional teaching methods, due to how humans are the one teaching, they are able to give very concise answers that the AI may not be able to comprehend in real time to the point where students can actively engage in conversations with the teachers, but the issue is that they teach very slowly. For AI, it is able to generate responses very fast by looking into various websites, but it can lack the knowledge that more competent teachers have when it comes to teaching students. Comparing these two together, humans will still be needed to teach classes due to them having certain knowledge that AI does not know about, not to mention how humans are the only ones who can make AI improve by writing the coding algorithms for them.

## What AI might be like in the future

As far as AI is right now, it is not perfect as mentioned with the earlier points. However, when it comes to thinking about what AI might be like in the future, there's always the idea that it can advace thanks to humans being able to revise code within AI to make it learn better to the point where AI can replicate human knowledge, even though that point will most likely happen far from now. There also might be challenges where an AI revolution might happen where AI might become rogue to the point where it will deem humans inferior to them and potentially start to cause harm, but as long as humans can control how AI is learning, that AI uprising event would probably not happen.

## Conclusion

In a growing generation, AI become the new trend that everyone talks about thanks to how it can help them with their everyday tasks. AI is especially useful when it comes to learning new things, but as it stands today, it isn't perfect to the point where it has yet to fully replace human teachers in the education system. Despite this, it can still be proficient enough in helping students learn and solve problems especially when it involves coding. Eventually, as time goes on, AI will start to get smarter to the point where people can reliably use it to solve their problems as quick as possible with little to no error.

DISCLAIMER: I did not use AI to write this essay.
